Describe SLSA's versioning conventions. (#722)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec-stages.md

for other considerations related to an
[Approved Specification](https://github.com/slsa-framework/governance/blob/main/1._Community_Specification_License-v1.md).

### Retired

This stage indicates that the specification is no longer maintained.
It has been either rendered obsolete by a newer version or
abandoned for some reason. The status of the document may provide
additional information and point to the new document to use intead if
there is one.

## Versioning

SLSA uses a variant of [Semantic Versioning](https://www.semvar.org) to assign
version numbers to the Core Specification and Attestation Formats, collectivly
known as the SLSA Specification.

> Given a version MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, we will increment

Reviewer: Version numbers have only been `MAJOR.MINOR` so far. Should we either note that there is an assumed `.0` in the absence of it or should we change the current version to `v1.0.0`?

> Given a version MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, we will increment

Reviewer: Version numbers have only been MAJOR.MINOR so far. Should we either note that there is an assumed .0 in the absence of it or should we change the current version to v1.0.0?

Reviewer 2: Do we really need patches? Right now we don't have a good release process, so actually calling something a patch will be painful. Can we just have major and minor but say that we follow the semantic versioning otherwise? Is anyone confused by the lack of ".PATCH"?

Reviewer: SemVer is confused: https://semver.org/#spec-item-2 :)

-   MAJOR version when making backwards incompatible changes to the Core
  Specification.
-   MINOR version when making backwards compatible changes to the Core
  Specification.

> -   PATCH version when making changes to the Attestation Formats.

Reviewer 2: Can we be more precise? I think the rules vary by attestation formats vs the slsa spec.

- Attestation formats: Either link to or copy https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/versioning.md#versioning-rules-1
- SLSA specification: What is a breaking change? We need to spell out criteria for determining the minimum type of version bump. I'm not sure precisely what this should be.
  - Clarifying text in a way that doesn't change meaning: PATCH (even if we don't report the PATCH level)
  - Adding new tracks or levels: MINOR
  - Adding more explanation to an existing requirement, in a way that doesn't fundamentally change the requirement but provides better guidance: PATCH?
  - Altering an existing requirement to be more or less stringent, but that doesn't fundamentally change the meaning: MINOR?
  - Adding a completely new requirement to an existing level: MAJOR

Furthermore, we promise to never change the high-level meaning of a SLSA level once it has been released. For example, "SLSA Build L3" SHOULD NOT mean something fundamentally different even in a new major version number. If we want to do that, we'll create a new name, e.g. "SLSA Compile L3". https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-proposals/tree/main/0003#versioning

We expect to release a MINOR version at least every three (3) months, and we

> expect to release a MAJOR version at most once per calendar year. We will

Reviewer 2: Right. I think we would ideally _never_ have a MAJOR version, and I agree that we should limit it to at most once per year. I also think we shouldn't set any expectations on the cadence of MINOR versions for now.

> expect to release a MAJOR version at most once per calendar year. We will

Author: I'm happy enough not to schedule MAJOR versions, but I think there are benefits to scheduling MINOR releases. It sets expectations for infrastructure providers, and gives us a basis for instituting some basic project management (e.g. bugs can be classified as "do immediately for a PATCH" vs "hold for the quarterly MINOR release"). It would also be useful for writing the roadmap to be able to say something like "<feature x> is scheduled for <MINOR version>", though I suppose that's not too different to scheduling for a month or quarter.

I am, however, open to the idea that it's simply too early for this sort of scheduling.

> release PTACH versions as often as necessary.

Reviewer: Is `expect` too strong of a word here? There is also some time-based component here. Short term, I would expect that the release cadence would be higher/more significant changes. Longer term, there might not be as much need for as many large changes.

for other considerations related to an
[Approved Specification](https://github.com/slsa-framework/governance/blob/main/1._Community_Specification_License-v1.md).

### Retired

This stage indicates that the specification is no longer maintained.
It has been either rendered obsolete by a newer version or
abandoned for some reason. The status of the document may provide
additional information and point to the new document to use intead if
there is one.

## Versioning

SLSA needs revision from time to time, so we version the specification to
facilitate conformance efforts and prevent confusion. We assign a single
version number to the Core Specification and Attestation Formats, collectively
known as the SLSA Specification.

Given a version MAJOR.MINOR, we will increment

-   MAJOR version when making backwards incompatible changes to an
    Attestation Format or adding new requirements to an existing level
    in the Core Specification.
-   MINOR version when adding new tracks or levels to the Core Specification,
    modifying an existing level without fundamentally changing its meaning, or
    adding new fields to an Attestation Format in a backwards-compatible way.

>     For more details on Attestation Format versioning, see the [intoto

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more details on Attestation Format versioning, see the [in-toto
```

    Versioning Rules](https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/versioning.md).

Although we can revise the contents of level, we will never change a level's
high-level meaning after publication (e.g. SLSA Build Level 2 will retain its
general meaning between major versions). If you require precision when referring
to SLSA levels, then include their version number using the syntax `SLSA

> [Track] [Level] ([Version]` (e.g. `SLSA Build L3 (v1.0)`). For more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Track] [Level] ([Version])` (e.g. `SLSA Build L3 (v1.0)`). For more
```
